<p>Our Institute was held at the 41st Annual Association of African American Museums Conference which was held in Jackson Mississippi and we did it as a pre-conference workshop over a two-day period. Those two days were to allow conference attendees to come in early to receive this intensive training in Digital Humanities with an afrofuturism feel. So we infuse the workshop in the training with afrofuturism, with scholars, people who are leading practitioners in afrofuturism and whose projects are informed by their afrofuturist viewpoint. What that essentially means is that we have a participant base that is made up of African American museums, libraries, cultural institutions, archives, a number of historically black colleges and universities, and professionals who are working to preserve histories within their communities. But they're also looking for ways to connect those histories to present and future generations. And so afrofuturism gives them the opportunity to infuse like a cool factor and to make it much more dynamic and informed by the the facts of the past but also how those facts help us to shape or even reshape or reimagine the future that we'd like to see. That gave it an increased interest and that has made for a really growing engagement of professionals or practitioners across disciplines who otherwise I don't think ever would have connected or be collaborators within this network once they have seen how much their shared interest and their passions actually do align.</p>
<h6>Partners and Collaborators</h6>
<p>I reached out first to colleagues within my institution. Within the museum, I knew of two people in particular that would be receptive to this discussion. One was Dr. Doretha Williams and she leads our Robert Frederick Smith African American Digitization Initiative. That's an initiative where they go out and lead community-curation projects. They take this huge bus and go around the country, basically digitizing people's family collections; family photos, memorabilia, anything that would allow people to preserve their own family histories. I met with her and Laura Coyle. Dr. Laura Coyle is the Director of our Digitization and Collections department and she and Doretha just opened up generously with any number of people that they thought would be interested in this. We put our heads together and started thinking through how these two days could be shaped. I shared with them my DHRI curriculum from last summer and they really, really understood what we were trying to achieve. Literally, for every week that passed, they were doing email introductions of colleagues around the country. For every person I talked with that they referred me to, that person referred me to several others. So we ended up with people from all over, everywhere from University of Central Florida to Michigan State to University of California Riverside. I mean, we have scholars coming from Canada, scholars coming from Senegal, West Africa. It's really, really just fascinating how collaborating really just took the form of asking—asking for help. As soon as we asked, people were more than generous to say: "I'm doing this, but you should also talk to this person," and people that they were genuinely interested in their work.</p>
<h6>Challenges</h6>
<p>Oh wow, major challenges throughout the process. The main challenge was time, the time constraint and knowing that you only have a certain amount of time both to plan the institute but also the offering of it. I ideally wanted to replicate the experience I had and it became clear with me connecting it to a larger annual conference there was no way I could have even three full days. So I ended up trimming my my three-day plan down to two full days which then became one and a half day and really trying to be mindful that we wanted this to be the start of a larger conversation, the start of an opportunity to grow this community of learners so it didn't all have to be covered this first year. Once I started to understand that we don't have to do everything the first go-around, that this truly is a pilot where we will see how many people attend, we would see how they respond and that would give us I think the information that would that would be useful in planning the next one. So it really has been just learning how to to maximize the time that we have together and not really focus so much on the constraints of the time. That was my major challenge. The other part of it was communicating when I felt overwhelmed. The same collaborators that I had gone to initially, to say: "What do you think? How should we approach this? Who do you know in this field?" They were the same people that I could go back and say: "Oh my gosh, it was a month ago that we talked and I meant to email you a month ago. Can we can we just talk?" And having that ability to say "I'm sorry, things are moving so fast. If you'll give me another week or so," and they would say "Don't worry about it. What can I do to help? How can I reach out for you? Can I take something off your list?" That has been a tremendous learning experience for me but also a tremendous help in overcoming the challenge of feeling the pressure of trying to make it all come together and realizing that none of us do this by ourselves. It may be my responsibility to make sure it gets accomplished but I don't get there alone. There's a whole group of us working on this.</p>
<h6>Takeaways</h6>
<p>I think my larger take-away both last year and through this process of planning my own Institute is: the truth is you do not have to be an expert. You really have enough help and enough support and the collaboration and the ability to partner, the ability to share and spread the love and the load around, building a team not just for the planning and coordination but just having people you can bounce ideas off of. You don't have to know it all and that was the biggest reassurance I had leaving here last year was after the training feeling like, "Oh, I didn't realize that I do know some things," or "I can do this," and that I can learn as I go and then coming into the space of needing to then coordinate a similar experience for another group of people that I don't have to be the expert. I don't have to even facilitate the entire thing. I can utilize and lean on those who have expertise in certain areas and really lean into my own strengths, and that being connecting dots and making sure people have an experience that's unforgettable. That was really the biggest takeaway: whatever you have, you can contribute. Whatever you have will add value and you don't need to know it all in order to to accomplish what you want to accomplish.</p>