<p>Our Institute happened May 29th. It was a one day Institute, but there was a lot of content. We decided that it had to be one day because we have a four full-day workshop right before it. So this is really the fifth day. In the future when we do this again, there's the possibility to make it map multiple days.</p>
<h6>Participant Feedback</h6>
<p>We had a takeaway session at the end of the day and the feedback, it's just overwhelmingly positive: We had 55 participants, that's pretty amazing, and then it was a very good mixture of faculty members, staff, students, and some community members. So we opened the call of participation to really everybody. We tried to make it inclusive and then the people, they are so positive. They think they learned a lot. This is really useful for their personal professional development, for teaching excellence, and they saw the examples of what they could do with this in terms of their own research. We invited people both in the humanities and social sciences and natural senses to say what they have done. Even at a liberal arts college, the product that you could produce is really top-notch, so this is very encouraging. I think that suggests the interest: they want this to be continued, you know: What will be the second one? When would that happen? And then we have to think about the sustainability of this and we then have to think about the the structure. How to make this really part of the of the agenda as we move forward to prepare for the next stage of humanities studies?</p>
<h6>Challenges</h6>
<p>I think the major challenges are: you had to find the people that you can work with: your peers, your supporters, your collaborators. And sometimes that takes time, sometimes, if there are twists on the way— but you want to make sure you have a core group of people that are with you on this. I have been lucky because from very early on the director of the libraries at my institution is a very devoted supporter for this. She thinks there's a real need in the community because a previous survey, especially in terms of pedagogy. So she wrote a letter for me to apply for the Research Institute back in 2017. And then when I told her I want to bring this back to our campus, she was very supportive. I also have another director, the director in charge of the instructional technology, she has been with me since the planning stage. Miranda—that's her name—I think we two are really kind of the driving force and people who really completed all the logistics of the conference.</p>
<h6>Recruiting Participants</h6>
<p>We have a Mellon grant at CSB/SJU that really focus on how to make the community more inclusive for all the members. When we were trying to plan this first ever digital technologies conference at CSB/SJU we really wanted to be inclusive and welcome to all the community members. We send out multiple, multiple emails to everybody that we could think of. And when we sent the tentative schedule with all the topics, we were very open for suggestions. We sent out a survey for people to be able to add and give people space for them to make choices, such as a popular one: What's the incentive gift that you want to get when you come to this technology conference? We decided on a flash drive. So I think this really helped. And also we understand, it's kind of a demanding schedule that we designed, because there are so many people who want to really contribute to the conference. We had basically more presenters than we could handle. Then what we decided to do is group the presenters and themes. We have the digital possibilities for people to tell us what they're already doing in their classrooms and in their research field. And then we have the digital pedagogy panel that almost everybody can benefit from. And we have four undergraduate students who decided to join. And we shared a lot about why this is fascinating for them: Why they want digital technologies in general in the classrooms. So that's just beautiful.</p>
<h6>Pedagogy</h6>
<p>I think we wanted it to be really conversational so there's a lot of space and a place that we left in the agenda for people to feel free to ask questions and we have break sessions where people can talk with the neighbors in small groups, we have interactive sessions where people can really have dialogues to talk about where they want to go from here. So it is built in through the day.</p>
<h6>Takeaways</h6>
<p>I think this is something that faculty members can really do. We think of how busy our schedules are: Do we need another thing? Do we need to learn all these digital tools? What's the benefits for us? I'm really in the middle of everything: the middle of my life, mid-career, and I'm a mother. I have to be responsible for many, many things. I have administrative duties as well. But this is also a time for me to think what the world of humanities studies will be 20-30 years from now and how I, as a faculty member, can remain relevant and really a value-contributing member for the community. I think this is really the route to go. And this is doable, with help from our young and fresh and so knowledgeable Digital Fellows, and very kind support from peers, we can really do this. I picked up digital skills that I thought was impossible. When people showed me the great work they do, I think: How could I do that? Then when I really do it and put it up I think, "Oh, that's pretty amazing as well." So, you know, give it a try!